# NBAThreePointShot-CMSC320FInalProject-
Basketball is one of the most played and watched sports in the United States and several parts of the world, especially the NBA. Being created by Dr. James Naismith, this sport rose to be highly influential. However, the game of basketball has changed rapidly in the last 2 decades. Basketball consisted of 5 positions: the point guard, who is the shortest at the court, but is very fast and agile and sets up the play for the rest of the team; the shooting guard, almost the same size as the point guard, but is mainly responsible for scoring the basket mainly through shooting the ball, especially three-pointers; the small forward, who serves as the hybrid between the guards and big forwards as they can shoot, score, and get rebounds; and finally the power forwards and the centers, who are the biggest, tallest players on the court. Their main goal is to score layups under the basket through post moves and most importantly, get rebounds. Before, power forwards and Centers are originally intended to stay around the basket in order to score layups and get rebounds due to height advantage, but they were not intended to shoot the ball as they have to stay near the basket and never go beyond the three-point arc. Back then, it would be highly beneficial to foul a big man as they are more likely to miss a free throw due to their inability to shoot. However, in the last decade, big men like the centers and power forwards have been starting to shoot and score three-pointers that have never been seen before in the NBA since the 1950s. NBA centers and power forwards have become more prominent in shooting like for example, Karl Anthony Towns, who just recently now holds the current record for the most threes, which was "68 three-pointers," shot by a center in the season, and Blake Griffin, who started as a full-on paint scorer and is now shooting better than ever before. Since more people are shooting the three-ball more than ever before including the power forwards and centers, the game could be significantly different than it was originally intended and thus new rules and possibly new field goals (like a potential extra four-point line located around the half-court) must be implemented to maintain the balance of this game. With the help of Data Science, we can visualize, analyze, and prove how significantly different the big men in today's NBA shoot compared to the past.
